---
description: Command-line apps and tools.
---

# Application package layout

## A sample [application package](https://dart.dev/tools/pub/glossary#application-package)

```text
foo/
  LICENSE
  README.md
  CHANGELOG.md
  pubspec.yaml
  pubspec.lock
  bin/
    foo.dart
  doc/
    foo_guide.dart
  lib/
    src/
      bar.dart
      baz.dart
  test/
    bar_test.dart
    baz_test.dart
    foo_test.dart
  tool/
    tool.dart
```

The `pubspec.lock` lockfile is created after running `pub get`, `pub upgrade`, or `pub downgrade`. 

{% hint style="info" %}
Do commit the lockfile \(`pubspec.lock`\) to version control for an application package.
{% endhint %}

### Public directories

The following two directories are public to other packages.

`bin` - for public tools and command-line apps.

`lib` - for public libraries and assets.

#### The bin directory

This directory is for public tools and command-line apps.

Scripts in the `bin` directory can be run from inside the package directory using `pub run.`

If the package has been activated using `pub global activate`, then scripts can be run from any directory using `pub global run`.

Note that `pub run` and `pub global run` can only run scripts directly under the `bin` directory, not subdirectories of `bin`.

#### The lib directory

This directory is for public libraries and assets. For a [library package](library-package-layout.md), generally there will be a single public library that can be imported by other packages, typically named after the package \(e.g., `foo.dart`\). However, multiple libraries can be made public as well. The following demonstrates both situations:

```text
import 'package:foo/foo.dart';
import 'package:foo/bar/baz.dart';
```

Internal package _implementation_ code \(for any type of package\) should be placed under `lib/src`.

Public assets, such as resource and data files, should also be placed under the `lib` directory and organized within subdirectories. These can be read by other applications by using the [resource package](https://github.com/dart-lang/resource).

{% hint style="info" %}
Put web assets, such as HTML and CSS files, under the `web` directory.
{% endhint %}

### Other directories

```text
foo/
  benchmark/
  doc/
  example/
  test/
  tool/
  web/
```

#### Tests and benchmarks

Test files go under a `test` directory or subdirectories. These files should suffixed with `_test.dart`.

Benchmarks for performance critical code go under the `benchmarks` directory.

#### Documentation

Documentation files go under the `doc` directory. Files generated by dartdoc will be placed under `doc/api`.

#### Examples

Library packages often include executable examples in addition to documentation. Unless you only have a single example, place distinct examples in their own subdirectories under `example`.

For a hypothetical package called `foo`, here is what two different examples called `bar` and `baz` might look like:

```text
foo/
  example/
    bar/
      README.md
    baz/
      lib/
        main.dart
```

> Note: When publishing a package, the Pub site will create an Example tab that displays the contents of the first file that matches a specific pathname pattern under the example directory. See [Examples](https://dart.dev/tools/pub/package-layout#examples) for more detail about the pattern search order.

#### Tools

The `tool` directory is for internal, package-specific helper scripts.

## Reference

[Package layout conventions](https://dart.dev/tools/pub/package-layout)

